this is Gina from money wise moms and
it's day four of my 31 days of grocery
savings strategies today we're talking
about meal planning now there's a reason
that I talked about meal planning all
the time at money-wise mom's calm it's
one of the best things I've ever done
it's taken me quite a few years to do it
regularly but it makes a huge difference
it's not just about saving money on your
groceries it really can save you a lot
of time and a lot of stress and help
your family eat healthier and that's why
I encourage so many of you to do it in a
lot of different ways every monday i
post what we're eating for the week so
you can see what we're actually eating
and i hook up to a linky at org junkie
calm called meal planning Monday and
there are hundreds of people posting
their meal plans every week so if you're
looking for specific diets like gluten
free or dairy free or our weight
watchers points you can find those at
the meal planning Monday link up and
I'll leave you the link after this video
but let's get back to meal planning as a
grocery saving strategy a way to save
money now I do this every week with two
things in mind I always take a look at
my freezer in my pantry to see what I
already have because I might have some
frozen chicken or beef and I might have
a lot of rice or pasta or something in
the pantry that I want to use up and
then I just try to keep things simple
and that's something to keep in mind you
don't have to try new recipes all the
time and you don't have to you know go
out of your way to cook fancy meals if
you're really struggling to get food on
the table every night or you're really
struggling with your budget I want to
encourage you to keep it simple when you
do meal planning and if you're really
having a hard time you might think about
using a structure like every monday is
pasta night and every tuesday is chicken
night and every friday is pizza night
and i know that might sound a little
boring but if you're really having a
hard time it's great to do that for a
couple of weeks and just get the hang of
it it doesn't mean you're going to eat
the same chicken every single tuesday
night you can mess around with your
recipes a little bit but it's doing
something like that for about a month
we'll get get you in the hang of doing
meal planning and then you can branch
out I don't try new recipes very often
maybe once or twice a month when I know
that life is going to get real busy
let's say during the holidays or if we
have visitors coming into town I really
pull things back and keep things very
simple and you can see that when
look at my meal plan every Monday um so
what I do is sit down on a Sunday night
and sometimes I include my husband or my
kids in the planning but again they know
that it's not just what do you want to
eat this week it's involving what we
have on hand and maybe what's on sale on
the front page of the circulars now the
circulars that I showed you in the past
two days there was chicken and pork
chops on sale and some of the vegetables
those are things that I would pick for
this next week's meal and I usually go
shopping on sunday i try to shop one
time for the whole week and get
everything I need and the way that I
know I have everything I need is by
making this meal plan and I think
through what are we eating each night
and what do we need to go with it now if
you're busy family and you get home late
and it's inevitable that you're going to
stop at fast food that's fine or you
want to have a frozen pizza that's fine
but put it on your meal plan you can
save money by planning those nights out
for example tonight we went to my son's
school there was a special fundraiser
and we had pizza night there you know I
that was part of the meal plan for the
week I knew I didn't have to make dinner
tonight and in theory my grocery should
cost less for the week because I'm
spending a little money on friday night
on pizza that's fine if you know that
the night you come home from gymnastics
you always swing by mcdonalds write it
down on your meal plan if you're
planning ahead for those kinds of
occurrences and that part of your budget
it's um it saves you a lot of worry and
you won't do take out the other nights
of the week because you'll focus more on
cooking so so again I want to encourage
you to try meal planning I have a lot of
resources here on the website that will
point out to you and there's a lot of
resources on other blogs as well if you
have any questions just leave them in
the comments and I'll talk to you there